The idea of d’ecroissance emerged in France in the mid-1970s as a direct reaction to The Limits to Growth(1972). According to Muraca(2013), d’ecroissance  was first used as a term by Amar(1973) in a rather loose way to critically reflect upon the western model of economic  development, before French translations of some of the works of Georgescu-Roegen (Georgescu-Rocgen, 1979) populaeized d’ecroissance as an alternative to the already established idea of z’egisme (i.e. zero growth).


In particular, Georgescu-Roegon(1975) application of ther-modynamics to economic processes has been centra to d’ecroissance and its English speaking sibling of degrowth. A central characteristic of d’ecroissance  is its critical stance towards the western model of human development (Martinez-Alier et al. , 2010). Concretely, it questions its tacit assumption that economic development  and human progress are correlated (e.g. Illich,1973,1974; Latouche, 1986) and proposes voluntary simplicity as a means to tree the Individual from modern consumerism, with places like Can Decreix at the French-Spanish border as exemplified alternative modes of living (see  http:///www.candecreix.cat/).  Historically, the French-speaking discourse about d’ecroissance  is older than the one about degrowth, but the French d’ecroissance  word is often translated as “degrowth” in English texts (Martin’s-Alier et al.,2010), making it a de-facto synonym without actually my name that exact same thing.

In comparison to d’ecroissance, the degrowth discourse is less radical and rooted in ecological economics. Ecological economics criticizes economic mainstream, for example the use of GDP as a policy indicator, but it seeks to be vindicate economics as a discipline rather than aban-doing it, in particular by adding to the body of ecological-economic theory from which  concrete policy proposals can be developed. Thus, degrowth aims at reforms of existing institutions and systems rather than revolutions(Kalls, 2011).

Generally, we follow the research design and methodology established-listed in our earlier, systematic reviews that aimed at particular concepts (Abson et al., 2014; Brandt et al., 2013; Nüchtern et al., 2021) or research fields(Drupp et al., 2020). We outlining this process in the following, a graphical overview can be found in Fig. 1.

According to Martinez-Allier et al. (2010), d’ecroissance has a clear eco-socialist agenda, i.e. d’ecroissance sees economic questions as necessarily political questions, which ultimately lead to the abolishment of capitalism. Furthermore, d’ecroissance is “anti-economics” in a sense that economics is seen as a discipline that should be abandoned(ibid.).
